12/03/17 16:09:43: Alice Velho: B"H  

Ein Oz Ela Torah

This Purim we wish that your dreams come true, 
When all of us will wake up after riding on clouds 
Reaching our final destination, somewhere over the rainbow.

אין עוז אלא תורה*  
“There is no strength but Torah,”  
*Yalkut Shmoni, Tehilim Perek 21  

שהיא נותנת כח ועוז לבחינת מתנים החגורים ומלובשים בה
for it gives power and strength to the “loins”, i.e., the faith of the soul,which are girded and embodied in it,  

לחזק ולאמץ זרועותיה, הן דחילו ורחימו שכליים או טבעיים  
to strengthen and fortify its “arms”, namely the intellectually-generated or innate awe and love  כל חד לפום שיעורא דיליה  in each man according to his measure.  
Tanya, Igeres HaKodesh, Perek 1

The classic "Wizard of Oz" is known for its political hidden meanings, maybe even mystical to some. Its metaphors can also hold parallels to Chasidic thought. 

ORPHANED DOROTHY
We often call this generation "dor she nishbah", a generation of baby orphans.
Dorothy is an orphan that dreams to go over the rainbow.
We are all dreaming for the Geula Amiti.

SCARECROW, TIN WOODMAN, COWARDLY LION
Dorothy first encounters the scarecrow who longs for a brain, then the tinman wishing a heart and finally a lion who desires courage.  
Chasidus teaches us that we can only succeed when our brain is above our heart, that is above our liver. All aligned for thought to rule over our speech leading to positive action.  

SNOW VS. POPPIES  
The Zohar (Chukat 184) explains that Scarlet and Snow refer to both sides which G-d nourishes Israel, Judgement and Compassion.   
In the story, the characters are saved from the effects of a poppy field through snow shedding.  

WITCH DESINTEGRATES
Dorothy successfully destroys the witch by unintentionally splashing water.  
Torah is compared to water, when we are connected to Torah we are able to destroy the witches that haunt to trap us.  

POWER TO GO HOME  
Glinda explains that Dorothy always had the power to go home, but she would not have believed it before.  
Sometimes we face many tests in life. If only we realized that it was a test, we would have passed it much quicker. After we went through it, we are able to look in hindsight and appreciate the new strengths that we uncovered. 

THERE'S NO PLACE LIKE HOME
Everyday we long to be back where we belong in Yerushalayim Habnuia. There's no place like our homeland, Artzeinu Hakadosh.
 
We want Moshiach Now! 

Sagi, Alizah, Levi Yitzchak and Yisroel